[Music]
- one for about five years ago we came
across this toy that's a deformable
elastic sphere that we started skipping
on the water surface just like stones
and we observe some really interesting
phenomenon including this notion that
the sphere skips really really close to
each other at the end of its of its
travel and so we looked more into the
details of what's going on there and we
stumbled upon this water walking
mechanism water walking is this newly
observed skipping state that we saw
where rather than skipping in a manner
like a skipping stone the sphere
actually starts to rotate very quickly
it holds a deformed shape and then it
hits rapidly across the water surface
and if you see it it really gives this
impression that it's it's walking across
the water surface like the basilisk
lizard
we have dug in into the mathematics and
the mechanics behind why this phenomenon
occurs and it turns out it's a natural
naturally occurring state that the ball
wants to be in if it's rotated fast
enough we went out to a place where one
could study this bear lake and we had
people in the water with high speed
cameras looking at what was happening
150 feet down range I wish I could work
every day like this actually wake up
early watch a sunrise over a beautiful
lake work in a lovely lake and then pack
up by 2 o'clock and go home and rest
you